(1) What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

Running "git init" will initialize a repository in the current directory.
Initializing a repository means git will install a hidden folder called .git
in this directory, which contains metadata files for tracking the changes
and contents of this directory.

Initializing a repository will not automatically make a first commit to contain
all the files of the repository in their pristine, clean state for an initial commit.
Files must be manually and purposely added to the first commit to initiate tracking
from there on out. This is because some files may not be desired to be tracked and
git couldn't know on its own which files a user wishes to track.




(2) How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? 
What value do you think it offers?

The working directly is simply a container for all of our files.
The repository is a container for all of our commits, our logical changes over time.
The staging area is an intermediary place between the working directory and the
repository for us to place files on for our next commit.

It helps us manually let git know which files belong to our commit, our "logical change",
and which don't. Ultimately, it simply gives us more fine-grained control over our commits.
Imagine a situation where we factually made more than one logical change by adding logical
changes in multiple files (note: not *one* logical change across multiple files, but
multiple logical changes in multiple files), but still want to adhere to our "one commit =
one logical change" principle. We may have done so accidentally. The staging area then
helps us still keep our commits clean and simple and adhere to our "one logical change per
commit principle" by adding only the files affected by each logical change to the staging
area and then making a commit and repeating this process for all the logical changes we
made.

Another value the staging area offers is that it allows us to verify (via "git status") 
the files that were changed before we commit. We may have accidentally changed a file we
were not aware of or forgot about, which would otherwise be automatically included in 
our next commit and not make sense as part of the logical change we commited. 
The staging area increases our awareness of the changes we made. If for example 
we realize we made more than one logical change when looking at the staging area
via "git status", we may decide to make two separate commits instead of one.
We must make sure we adhere to the "one commit = one logical change" principle.




(3) How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

In case more than one logical change actually happened for example, we can split it up
into two commits thanks to the staging area, by adding and commiting them one at a time.
This would be the case in case we added or deleted more than one file for example.

Or if we made more than one logical change cleanly independently within multiple separate
files.

In essence, it gives us more flexibility in designing the commit/logical change history
of our project.




(4) What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?

Branches are useful always then, when we want to experiment with experimental features
which we either are not yet entirely sure about including on the main/master branch,
because we are not sure how the feature would feel in the application overall or how it
would play together with the other systems already in place, or then, when a new feature
we think of implementing might require multiple commits and logical changes to implement.

This way we can keep our main branch clean from possible bugs we might introduce during
feature implementation or dirtying up our master branch with multiple feature
implementation commits we might end up wanting to reverse.

The concept of branching and a master branch gives us an extra feeling of safety, because
it allows testing and development of new content on separate branches and only including
them on the master branch once we feel certain the addition is bug free and works as
intended. It adds and extra safety- and stability-layer to our master branch.
This is in addition to us being able to still go back in commit history later on on the
master branch, should we still discover something not working as intended down the line.
But testing on branches should reduce such occurences and therefor largely keep our
master branch clean of "hidden surprises."




(5) How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

What a strange question. They help visualize the branch structure by visualizing the
branch structure in a diagram. It helped me to understand the concept of what the head,
branch, and commit represent. And thereby also made clear to me the meaning of the message
"You are now in detached-HEAD state."

The head can be seen like the head of a cd-drive, or other technical reading device with
a head, where the head denotes the current location of what is currently being read or
seen. The head is the part of the device that reads the data, so it's location is
equivalent to the data we currently see. In this case the data are commits, so the head
jumps between commits, displaying the one it is currently on. Meaning, it's changing
the state of the files in the file directory to the state of the commit it is on.
It's "reading" the commit and applying it to the files, thereby making it visible to us.
That means the head is always at the currently active commit. The HEAD equals the currently
active commit.

A branch is literally a chain of commits, where each preceding commit is the parent of the
next one. A single branch can also be called a "linear commit history."
Without a name, it would be an anonymous branch that can only be reached by the ID
of one of the commits it contains (via git checkout). 
When a branch has a name, also called "label" and we "git checkout" this branch, the head 
will always jump to the most recent commit in this branch. We can therefor say that the
branch name or "label" is *equivalent* to the most recent commit in a branch. So we can do 
something like "git checkout branchname". In essence, we can say then that creating a 
"branch" is simply assigning a "label" to the most recent commit of a commit chain, or 
"commit history", to easily jump to it. The label will always update to be associated with
the most recent commit of a commit-chain. Since the "label" of the branch (branch-name) is 
synonymous with the "branch" and is always associated with the latest commit, it is 
possible to sometimes hear the word "branch" as being used for referring to a single
commit, namely the "tip of the branch commit", the "latest commit" of a commit 
history/commit chain. So an expression like "multiple branches referring to the
same commit" is something one might hear. That would be the case when we are on the tip 
commit (latest commit of a branch) and run "git branch branchname" and don't yet commit 
anything. In this special case, we can say that we have "two branches (branch-names) 
referring to the same commit." Once we make another commit though, the branch labels
will update to refer to different commits again. The currently active/checked out branch
would update/extend, and the label of the currently active/checked out branch would thus 
move to the branch's latest commit, while the other one would remain where it was, on the 
previous commit.

(Side-Info: Note that the command "checkout" can be seen quite literally. We "check out" a
commit or branch, as in, we "look at it", we check it out, as in colloquial speech. The 
meaning as referring to luggage we pick up at an airport would also match, where the 
airport luggage compartment represents the repository, and the luggage is the commit we
take out of it. It can also be seen in the sense of "checking out" of a hotel, where we 
leave the hotel, or in the sense of commits, where the commit leaves the repository.)

The message "You are now in detached-HEAD state" appears when we checkout a commit that
is not the most recent of a branch. Recall that by default when we switch to a branch via
its name, the head will be at- or the head will be equivalent to the most recent commit in
that branch and will be automatically moved to each subsequent new commit we make on that 
branch. So we moved the head from the literal "head" of the branch to one of its
children/child-commits. That means we alter the default expected behavior of the head from
here on out. The default behavior or default state is that the head will be at the most
recent commit of a branch. When making a commit while the head is at a parent commit
however (further down in the commit history), we are not moving the head to the most recent 
commit of the current branch, but start creating a new anonymous branch with the next 
commit, at whose most recent commit the head will sit. This warning message is important to 
make us aware of the current situation, since usually we wish to branch off knowingly only 
at the literal head of the current branch and not somewhere in the past of the commit 
chain, because we want our new feature addition, or bug fix to be based on the latest state
of our code. There is also another reason why this message is important for our awareness.
Let's assume we went back to find the source of a bug and currently have the
*bug-introducing commit checked out* and want to immediately fix the bug after some 
testing. We forget that we he are not currently on the latest commit of our branch, and
dive right in to apply the fix in the code. If we were to return to the terminal now to
commit the fix, we are only left with two options. Naturally, we want to apply the fix to
the latest state/version of our codebase. However, commiting the fix now would start a new
*anonymous branch* off of the old bug introducing commit (which is not the latest state of
our code). This is quite useless to us. The other option we would think of is switching
back to the latest commit of our branch by checking it out and then commiting the fix.
But remember that checking out a commit will apply its state to our files. Git will prevent
us from checking out a more recent commit than the one we are currently on, because it
realizes that we have uncommited changes we would otherwise lose. It will provide you with
a variety of options for handling your changes and resolving this situation.
Also realize that if we had unknowingly commited our changes in detached-HEAD state and
later returned to our latest commit in the master-branch, we will have lost these changes
(unless we knowingly wrote down the commit ID of our anonymous branch-commit we just made.)
To summarize: "The detached HEAD message means you aren't on the tip of any branch -- that
is, there is no branch label attached to the current HEAD."

IMPORTANT Note also that:
If you make a commit from a detached HEAD state, no branch will be updated (even if the 
commit you had checked out is the tip of a branch -- you have to have it checked out by
branch name to get the branch to auto-update). So it's just warning you that you won't have 
an easy way to get back to this point unless you make a branch (you can always get back to 
it if you have the commit id recorded somewhere).




(6) What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the
diagram the way we do?

Merging two branches together will result in a single branch carrying the label of the
currently checked out, currently active branch. The commits of both branches will form a
unified commit history with commits sorted by date/time of creation. The actual
result of the merge will be visible in the single new resulting commit. This new commit
will be a combination of the differences between the two latest commits of each branch
and the last shared commit before branch seperation. What was added by both commits 
compared to the last shared commit will be present. What was present in the last shared
commit and not removed by either commit will be present. And what content was removed
from the last shared commit by either commit will be removed in the new commit. What is
the same between the two added commits will remain the same. In essence, the new commit
resulting from the merge contains whatever was in the last commit shared by both branches,
minus any removals of the latest commit of each branch, plus any additions of the latest
commit of each branch. That means before merging, we should run a diff to compare the
*other* branch's last commit/tip with the latest shared commit, to make sure it didn't
remove any content our own code relies on being there.




(7) What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

Git merges in a way that is automatic only in the most obvious of cases, like when both
files added completely new additions to each file, or where lines were left unchanged
from the common ancestor file. In cases where both files modified the same line in
different ways, a conflict emerges and the merging user is notified of this to decide
which file's lines to keep or how to modify the file to not break anything from both files.
This is the best solution since git can't know how to resolve this on its own and even
some sophisticated automatic merging mechanism is likely to introduce issues sooner or
later when encountering some new or bordlerine situations it was not designed to handle.
The pro side is thus that files will be merged without issues. The downside is that
even in some cases we might perceive as obvious regarding a solution, we have to manually
resolve the conflict ourselves.